Flowers are everywhere around us. They can feed insects, birds, animals and humans. They are also used as medicines for humans and some animals.This will help the medicinal industry to improve.The system proposed in the project can be used by botanists, campers and doctors alike. This can be extended as an image search solution where photo can be taken as an input instead of text in order to get more information about the subject and search accordingly for best matching results.  As the classification of flower species is an important task, it is already in research and many different approaches have been developed. 
We have developed a deep learning network for classification of different flowers. For this, we have used flower recognition data-set from kaggle  having 4,242 images of 5 flowers. Our method only deals with classification of flowers.First we started our project by learning some machine learning algorithms such as KNN and Naïvebays .We have applied these algorithms on iris-dataset classification.Then we have compared two different Convolutional Neural Network architectures basic and resnet50 for the classification purpose.We have gained 77% accuracy for the basic one and 86.4% testing accuracy on resnet architecture. These results are pretty good when compared to random classification of 5 flowers(daisy ,rose ,dandelion, sunflower and tulip). This method for classification of flowers can be implemented in realtime applications and can be used to help botanists for their research as well as camping enthusiasts.
